Kubernetes: How to populate resource attributes based on attributes, labels and transformation (#1756)
open-telemetry/semantic-conventions: docs/resource/README.md

  - [Semantic Attributes with Dedicated Environment Variable](#semantic-attributes-with-dedicated-environment-variable)
  - [Semantic Attributes with SDK-provided Default Value](#semantic-attributes-with-sdk-provided-default-value)
- [Service](#service)
  - [Service in Kubernetes](#service-in-kubernetes)

>     - [How `service.namespace` is calculated](#how-servicenamespace-is-calculated)

Reviewer: Since this is currently applicable to auto-instrumentation with operator, I think we should clarify that these are the guidelines suggested by conventions and adopted in operator. So maybe change the heading to

```suggestion
    - [How `service.namespace` can be calculated](#how-servicenamespace-can-be-calculated)
```

Author: good point

maybe "should" is better?

since users may not be aware that their labels are being used for this purpose.

Each attribute has a priority order for how it should be calculated as described below.

#### How `service.namespace` should be calculated

Choose the first value found:

1. `pod.annotation[resource.opentelemetry.io/service.namespace]`
2. `k8s.namespace.name`

#### How `service.name` should be calculated

Choose the first value found:

- `pod.annotation[resource.opentelemetry.io/service.name]`
- `pod.label[app.kubernetes.io/instance]` (well-known label
  [app.kubernetes.io/instance](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#app-kubernetes-io-instance))
- `pod.label[app.kubernetes.io/name]` (well-known label
  [app.kubernetes.io/name](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#app-kubernetes-io-name))
- `k8s.deployment.name`
- `k8s.replicaset.name`
- `k8s.statefulset.name`
- `k8s.daemonset.name`
- `k8s.cronjob.name`
- `k8s.job.name`
- `k8s.pod.name`
- `k8s.container.name`

The rationale is to go from the ancestor to the descendant in the Kubernetes resource hierarchy, e.g. from `deployment`

> to `pod` - see [Kubernetes Object Hierarchy](https://gist.github.com/fardjad/ea3c38d566c845e0b353237d3959e365).

Author: at least I couldn't find one

service.name = Shop.shoppingcart
```

### Service in Kubernetes

The following [service resource attributes](../attributes-registry/service.md) are recommended for Kubernetes services.

There are different ways to calculate the service attributes.

1. [Well-Known Labels](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/)
2. Annotations on the pod template that have the `resource.opentelemetry.io/` prefix as described in  

>     [resource attributes using Kubernetes annotations)](k8s.md#specify-resource-attributes-using-kubernetes-annotations)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [resource attributes using Kubernetes annotations](k8s.md#specify-resource-attributes-using-kubernetes-annotations)
```
